---
title: 'What is Social Policy?'
date: 2024-05-02
permalink: /_posts/2014/08/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Social Policy

---

‘When we use the term' social policy' we must not, therefore, automatically react by investing it with a halo of altruism, concern for others, concern about quality and so on.’(Titmuss, 1975)

The people often perceive social welfare policies as gifts from the ruling party, believing that these policies are beneficial to them. There is a common notion that if another party takes over governance, they may act against the interests of the people. The governing parties aim to embed this philosophy into society, attributing all achievements to "effective governance" rather than individual efforts. This strategy helps them maintain a competitive advantage in elections or strengthen their ruling position. In communist societies, people tend to believe that all policies are made in the interest of the people, raising the critical question of how to evaluate policy effectiveness.

Titmuss (1975) suggests that we should evaluate the outcomes and intended purposes of policies within a specific timeframe. Evaluating certain social policies, particularly welfare policies, involves assessing whether the goals were achieved during the policy execution period and reflecting on the measures and implementation of the policies.
Unfortunately, few governments admit when their social policies fail to reach their goals. In extreme cases, they may adjust minor criteria to meet targets. Most social policies, especially social welfare policies, are closely associated with the ruling party's efforts to address current challenges rather than long-term or forecasted ones. Consequently, some social policies are short-lived, making it difficult to evaluate their effectiveness.

The execution of each policy requires significant funds and impacts the lives of millions of people. Evaluating these policies is more challenging than conducting clinical trials, as it involves the lives and livelihoods of entire populations.Social policies often lag behind market and societal changes. While society undergoes rapid transformations, policies tend to be slower to adapt. Policymakers may either be overly aggressive or sluggish in responding to market changes.

Politicians have their own considerations when creating social policies, which may differ from what the people expect. Unfortunately, this gap between the interests of politicians and the public is expected to widen in the coming years. We will witness this through the issuance of new policies, especially in industrialized societies.

Reference:
Titmuss, R. M. (1975). Social Policy: An Introduction.




